
ESP-12E WiFi Module Version1.0 Disclaimer and Copyright Notice. Information in this document, including URL references, is subject to change without notice. THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED AS IS WITH NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING ANYWARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR ANY WARRANTY OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF ANY PROPOSAL, SPECIFICATIONOR SAMPLE. All liability, including liability for infringement of any proprietary rights, relating to use of information in this document is disclaimed. No licenses express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise, to any intellectual property rights are granted herein. The WiFi Alliance Member Logo is a trademark of the WiFi Alliance. All trade names, trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned in this document are property of their respective owners, and are hereby acknowledged. Copyright © 2015 AI-Thinker team. All rights reserved. Notice Product version upgrades or other reasons, possible changes in the contents of this manual. AI-Thinker reserves in the absence of any notice or indication of the circumstances the right to modify the content of this manual. This manual is used only as a guide, Ai-thinker make every effort to provide accurate information in this manual, but Ai-thinker does not ensure that manual content without error, in this manual all statements, information and advice nor does it constitute any express or implied warranty. Table of Contents 1. Preambles.................................................................................................. 3 1.1. Features........................................................................................... 4 1.2. Parameters ...................................................................................... 6 2. Pin Descriptions......................................................................................... 7 3. Packaging and Dimension.......................................................................... 9 4. Functional Descriptions........................................................................... 11 4.1. MCU............................................................................................... 11 4.2. Memory Organization ................................................................... 11 4.2.1. Internal SRAM and ROM........................................................... 11 4.2.2. External SPI Flash...................................................................... 11 4.3. Crystal............................................................................................ 12 4.4. Interfaces....................................................................................... 12 4.5. Absolute Maximum Ratings.......................................................... 14 4.6. Recommended Operating Conditions........................................... 14 4.7. Digital Terminal Characteristics..................................................... 14 5. RF Performance ....................................................................................... 15 6. Power Consumption ................................................................................ 16 7. Reflow Profile .......................................................................................... 17 8. Schematics............................................................................................... 18Shenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 3 1. Preambles ESP-12E WiFi module is developed by Ai-thinker Team. core processor ESP8266 in smaller sizes of the module encapsulates Tensilica L106 integrates industry-leading ultra low power 32-bit MCU micro, with the 16-bit short mode, Clock speed support 80 MHz, 160 MHz, supports the RTOS, integrated Wi-Fi MAC/BB/RF/PA/LNA, on-board antenna. The module supports standard IEEE802.11 b/g/n agreement, complete TCP/IP protocol stack. Users can use the add modules to an existing device networking, or building a separate network controller. ESP8266 is high integration wireless SOCs, designed for space and power constrained mobile platform designers. It provides unsurpassed ability to embed Wi-Fi capabilities within other systems, or to function as a standalone application, with the lowest cost, and minimal space requirement. Figure 1 ESP8266EX Block Diagram ESP8266EX offers a complete and self-contained Wi-Fi networking solution; it can be used to host the application or to offload Wi-Fi networking functions from another application processor. When ESP8266EX hosts the application, it boots up directly from an external flash. In has integrated cache to improve the performance of the system in such applications. Alternately, serving as a Wi-Fi adapter, wireless internet access can be added to any micro controllerbased design with simple connectivity (SPI/SDIO or I2C/UART interface). ESP8266EX is among the most integrated WiFi chip in the industry; it integrates the antenna switches, RF balun, power amplifier, low noise receive amplifier, filters, power management modules, it requires minimal external circuitry, and the entire solution, including front-end module, is designed to occupy minimal PCB area.Shenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 4 ESP8266EX also integrates an enhanced version of Tensilica’s L106 Diamond series 32-bit processor, with on-chip SRAM, besides the Wi-Fi functionalities. ESP8266EX is often integrated with external sensors and other application specific devices through its GPIOs; codes for such applications are provided in examples in the SDK. Espressif Systems’ Smart Connectivity Platform (ESCP) demonstrates sophisticated system-level features include fast sleep/wake context switching for energy-efficient VoIP, adaptive radio biasing. for low-power operation, advance signal processing, and spur cancellation and radio co-existence features for common cellular, Bluetooth, DDR, LVDS, LCD interference mitigation. 1.1. Features • 802.11 b/g/n • Integrated low power 32-bit MCU • Integrated 10-bit ADC • Integrated TCP/IP protocol stack • Integrated TR switch, balun, LNA, power amplifier and matching network • Integrated PLL, regulators, and power management units • Supports antenna diversity • Wi-Fi 2.4 GHz, support WPA/WPA2 • Support STA/AP/STA+AP operation modes • Support Smart Link Function for both Android and iOS devices • Support Smart Link Function for both Android and iOS devices • SDIO 2.0, (H) SPI, UART, I2C, I2S, IRDA, PWM, GPIO • STBC, 1x1 MIMO, 2x1 MIMO • A-MPDU & A-MSDU aggregation and 0.4s guard intervalShenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 5 • Deep sleep power <10uA, Power down leakage current < 5uA • Wake up and transmit packets in < 2ms • Standby power consumption of < 1.0mW (DTIM3) • +20dBm output power in 802.11b mode • Operating temperature range -40C ~ 125C Shenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 6 1.2. Parameters Table 1 below describes the major parameters. Table 1 Parameters Shenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 7 2. Pin Descriptions There are altogether 22 pin counts, the definitions of which are described in Table 2 below。 Table 2 ESP-12E Pin design Table 3 Pin Descriptions NO. Pin Name Function 1 RST Reset the module 2 ADC A/D Conversion result.Input voltage range 0-1v,scope:0-1024 3 EN Chip enable pin.Active high 4 IO16 GPIO16; can be used to wake up the chipset from deep sleep mode. 5 IO14 GPIO14; HSPI_CLK 6 IO12 GPIO12; HSPI_MISO 7 IO13 GPIO13; HSPI_MOSI; UART0_CTS 8 VCC 3.3V power supply (VDD) 9 CS0 Chip selection 10 MISO Salve output Main input Shenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 8 11 IO9 GPIO9 12 IO10 GBIO10 13 MOSI Main output slave input 14 SCLK Clock 15 GND GND 16 IO15 GPIO15; MTDO; HSPICS; UART0_RTS 17 IO2 GPIO2; UART1_TXD 18 IO0 GPIO0 19 IO4 GPIO4 20 IO5 GPIO5 21 RXD UART0_RXD; GPIO3 22 TXD UART0_TXD; GPIO1 Table 4 Pin Mode Mode GPIO15 GPIO0 GPIO2 UART Low Low High Flash Boot Low High HighShenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 9 Table 5 Receiver Sensitivity 3. Packaging and Dimension The external size of the module is 16mm*24mm*3mm, as is illustrated in Figure 3 below. The type of flash integrated in this module is an SPI flash, the capacity of which is 4 MB, and the package size of which is SOP-210mil. The antenna applied on this module is a 3DBi PCB-on-board antenna.Shenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 10 Figure 3 [Module Pin Counts, 22 pin, 16 mm *24 mm *3 mm] Figure 4 Top View of ESP-12E WiFi ModuleShenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 11 Table 5 Dimension of ESP-12E WiFi Modul Length Width Height PAD Size(Bottom) Pin Pitch 16 mm 24mm 3 mm 0.9 mm x 1.7 mm 2mm 4. Functional Descriptions 4.1. MCU ESP8266EX is embedded with Tensilica L106 32-bit micro controller (MCU), which features extra low power consumption and 16-bit RSIC. The CPU clock speed is 80MHz. It can also reach a maximum value of 160MHz. ESP8266EX is often integrated with external sensors and other specific devices through its GPIOs; codes for such applications are provided in examples in the SDK. 4.2. Memory Organization 4.2.1. Internal SRAM and ROM ESP8266EX WiFi SoC is embedded with memory controller, including SRAM and ROM. MCU can visit the memory units through iBus, dBus, and AHB interfaces. All memory units can be visited upon request, while a memory arbiter will decide the running sequence according to the time when these requests are received by the processor. According to our current version of SDK provided, SRAM space that is available to users is assigned as below: ▪RAM size < 36kB, that is to say, when ESP8266EX is working under the station mode and is connected to the router, programmable space accessible to user in heap and data section is around 36kB.) ▪ There is no programmable ROM in the SoC, therefore, user program must be stored in an external SPI flash. 4.2.2. External SPI Flash This module is mounted with an 4 MB external SPI flash to store user programs. If larger definable storage space is required, a SPI flash with larger memory size is preferred. Theoretically speaking, up to 16 MB memory capacity can be supported. Suggested SPI Flash memory capacity: ▪OTA is disabled: the minimum flash memory that can be supported is 512 kB; ▪OTA is enabled: the minimum flash memory that can be supported is 1 MB. Several SPI modes can be supported, including Standard SPI, Dual SPI, and Quad SPI.Shenzhen Anxinke Technology CO;LTD http://www.ai-thinker.com 12 Therefore, please choose the correct SPI mode when you are downloading into the flash, otherwise firmwares/programs that you downloaded may not work in the right way. 4.3. Crystal Currently, the frequency of crystal oscillators supported include 40MHz, 26MHz and 24MHz. The accuracy of crystal oscillators applied should be ±10PPM, and the operating temperature range should be between -20°C and 85°C. When using the downloading tools, please remember to select the right crystal oscillator type. In circuit design, capacitors C1 and C2, which are connected to the earth, are added to the input and output terminals of the crystal oscillator respectively. The values of the two capacitors can be flexible, ranging from 6pF to 22pF, however, the specific capacitive values of C1 and C2 depend on further testing and adjustment on the overall performance of the whole circuit. Normally, the capacitive values of C1 and C2 are within 10pF if the crystal oscillator frequency is 26MHz, while the values of C1 and C2 are 10pF